Well, I think the book which was written in the most manuscripts in the world, I think.
Yes.
As well as in Latin, in other words.
You know, I sort of found liturgies.
Everything here, everything here is about, it's religious.
Everything is religious.
So what do you actually do?
There is one which, I don't know which one it is, 10.0, 10.0, 10.50, 11th century.
But I will show you, I will say, a small book.
A small book.
We have a cabinet, by the way, which ends at 1560, 100.
It was died in 1924 by a monk here, together with another monk who became a bishop in Paris, and they make it together, and it's called Arcadius.
And this is the one which we are using now.
Of course, it's very amateur.
Yeah, it's good, but not for the today's standards.
Another change of the generators.
Good to have with my fries later.
Yes.
Now, I think this is the 13th century.
We have the music and the words as well.
And it's called Stichirarion, which means it has hymns which are chanted in vespers and muttons as well.
May you call it again?
Vespers.
Another book.
Stichirarion.
Let me show you exactly how it is.
Stichirarion musicus.
Maybe you can write it down for me.
Thank you.
Now, this is the kind of, you know, one of the manuscripts.
Now, bear in mind in many, many, many scripts you may find many works, not just one, because sometimes they were compiling them.
So whatever number that is, exactly, the correspondence, so that's 1499.
You can go here and find 1499, and here it is.
And the people who did this catalog in 1924, Metropoliton, Sophronios, and
Yaron, it's a monk, Arkadius, but it was done in Paris.
Greece was very poor, especially in the north, because the text left only in the 12th century, 1912.
The south was in a better shape.
And it says that it's for the whole year round, and it tells some information, like who are the poets.
And it gives us, these are saints of the church as well.
St.
Germanos, patriarch of St.
Louis, St.
John of Damascus, very famous.
Ephraim, Karias.
That's very extensive.
And it gives you blah, blah, blah, blah.
It tells you everything, everything, blah, blah, blah.
And then it gives you how many pages.
Now, not pages, but leaves.
Leaves.
And then it tells you when it was finished.
Up, 1292.
And even gives you the month and the day.
Wow, that's a terrific catalog.
And so it's quite old, you know.
But as I said, now they're making it comprehensive.
It gives you all the measures.
That's right.
It's awesome.
It's good.
It has a few mistakes.
Sometimes the number doesn't match.
Sometimes...
The good thing, one good thing, and we are proud of that, and we thank God for that, is that we haven't lost any manuscript since this was put together.
In the past, perhaps, but since this was put together, actually we have increased 500 manuscripts.
Wow.
It stops, let me give you exactly where it stops, and I will tell you from 24,
Here they have also indexes.
You see, 1536.
Today I'll give you the latest.
One nine, two, one nine, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
Miley is the other one.
Maybe someone's using it.
No, no, no, no.
Someone here, because I was working here and I have made the numbers.
These are my letters, I know.
1800s, you can see here.
We discover them later.
So that book goes up to what number?
15 something?
1536.
Whereas we have now 2050.
Well, that was in 1924.
Mm-hmm.
So since 1924, you've added close to 500 more.
And so, yes, and we have books also.
I don't know where they are.
That's some interesting.
Now, there is another kind of Auschwitz.
As we said, here we have patristic and classical, musical and liturgical.
Of course, a musical and a liturgical are involved in the church.
But we say musical because I'm using notations, whereas here it's only words which they either read or even chanted.
And you see again big numbers.
Aha, I'm approaching, you see, I'm approaching to 2000.
Very close.
Ah!
1996.
Why, I want just to see the 2000.
It's been at some time which I haven't been here, and... It's so close.
It's always, you see, 1996, 1996.
All these have been discovered just recently, very recently.
You mean that's the year they were discovered?
No, this is the number which will be given to the new catalogs.
Yeah, but there were a lot of them in 1996.
That's all one?
Yes.
No, it's probably a series.
And you see those songs of David, and we're having 11th century,
17th century, and that's probably the reason why we qualify the 2000, because they're giving the same number for some reason as with expert numbers.
You see, Capacita, 1996, it's always the same, it's always the same.
So you've probably got more than 2050.
I'm sure 2015 was a very observative number.
As I said, I've been working on the new libraries, so I'm not very much here.
I don't know if... 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
But see the centuries.
15th century, 17th century, 16th century, 18th century.
They even discovered 1345, the exact date.
15th century, 17th century.
And these are...
found here and there.
Some of them, which I found as well as some other fathers, are mixed.
Mixed, that means that it was a manuscript and a print book, and the monk who had it, he didn't have enough money, so he placed both the manuscripts and the printed books next to it.
And this makes them very unique, because they might be an old printed book and also an old manuscript.
Here what do we have?
I don't know, this is something very new for me.
I'm discovering the library here.
What do you have here?
Aha!
These are manuscripts which haven't been given number and they are very, very recent.
You see?
Printed book.
And suddenly the printed book becomes.
It's the printed book, printed book, and suddenly they lost the pages, whatever happens, and then we have a decent manuscript.
And look how beautiful it is, how close it is.
You think that it's printed.
That's why many times the librarians didn't know that it was printed.
They just said, book.
Whereas we now go all the way, and then suddenly, oops.
Oh, it looks different color.
Different color, different color, different calligraphy, oops.
And it's on lined paper, too.
Are these tiles, do you think, from the originalist building, or these floors, the tiles?
This looks very old.
Of course, not that very, very original, but there must be from the time when they brought the books here, I'm sure, in 1867.
And this is the turret right here, the turret.
Yes, it looks at the church.
And you can go to the top.
I don't have to.
And it's a little dangerous.
The stairs, it's very high.
When you go up, it's easy.
But when you go down, it's true.
I've got a bad leg.
I'm not very fit.
Because I'm working from the desk.
And, okay.
We've done it.
And here, here, we have brought just another collection of
in our collection from the skit of St.
Dimitris.
That's another skit when we came here which was almost abandoned.
We only find two, three old men.
Now we have only one and he's very old and he'll go living with us here.
So what's the skit now?
St.
Dimitris.
But is it closed?
It's closed.
But there is a man there who lives in a cell and he takes care of the place there.
One person?
Only one person.
But he doesn't belong to the skit.
He has his own cell which belongs to the monastery.
So actually this kid has nobody there.
And the one who lives today used to be the chief there.
And when he came here he brought all the manuscripts they had.
They are not very old.
They are only two or three hundred years old.
For our standards.
I know for America this is very old.
America was discovered in the, what was it, 15th century?
1498.
In the end of 15th century, and became a state in, what was it, 18th century.
So these are, and you can see that it's monks, and it's not professional.
You can see that it's not professional.
But it's important.
It's good and supportive, of course, of course, definitely.
Wow.
The Parorniparty, his doctrine to fill some of this book, exists for the glory of God Almighty.
And he says that it was something which I tried to do, he says, using ink and pen.
And he did this for the choir, and I hope that they will be, he says, useful
You see, it's something personal.
They have made a caramelo for them.
We have a caramelo for them, because they are very few.
We have a new caramelo by the one who is doing it for the bee collection, but I don't see it here.
We will find down steps.
I keep stepping.
Here you may find
secular books here, you know, tragedies, comedies, and, for example, Geography of Macedonia, Bibles, The Affamiliates of Christmas Song in English, Liturgy System in the West in English, you may find Classicals in Chienos,
Roman and Greek.
And you may find newspapers.
Ah, that's another thing.
These are newspapers.
We have newspapers 200 years old.
And this is the future of archaeology, according to some experts, in the newspapers, especially the old ones, which I consider as the New Orleans.
I agree.
Another criticism of mine.
It's one of the reasons I get out of the newspaper business.
I used to... No, you are generally so... I have to be careful.
No, I agree.
I think it's terrible.
Irresponsible.
In English, it's really... Irresponsible and trivial.
And also in America, when I was there... The New York Times is still pretty good.
Yes, but you see a lot of bias things, you know, a lot of bias things.
For example, they present Arabs as if horrible, evil people, you know.
Right.
From the Jewish lobby.
They present the Russians as either as soldiers.
They are not saying what America is doing outside its boundaries.
They are not saying many, many, many things, unfortunately.
And the people have an alternative just to accept this.
But journalism is really, really, especially in Greece today,
I say this responsibly.
Most of them are scoundrels.
And just because they can write, they are given... Please don't write that.
No, that's right.
I'm just saying most of them are scoundrels.
I love it.
I agree.
Because they will come to another party.
There are many of them.
No, I won't write this.
It's not relevant to what we're doing.
Let me give you an example.
Yes.
I'll even shut it off.